for the Lord will have mercy on Jacob
and will still choose Israel and settle
them in their own land the strangers
will be joined with them and they will
cling to the house of Jacob then people
will take them and bring them to their
place and the house of Israel will
possess them for servants and maids in
the land of the Lord they will take them
captive whose captives they were and
rule over their oppressors it shall come
to pass in the day the Lord gives you
rest from your sorrow and from your fear
and the hard bondage in which you were
made to serve that you will take up this
proverb against the king of Babylon and
say how the oppressor has ceased the
Golden City ceased the Lord has broken
the staff of the wicked the scepter of
the rulers he who struck the people in
wrath with a continual stroke he who
ruled the nations in anger is persecuted
and no one hinders the whole earth is at
rest and quiet
they break forth into singing indeed the
cypress trees rejoice over you and the
Cedars of Lebanon saying since you were
cut down
no woodsman has come up against us hell
from beneath is excited about you to
meet you at your coming it stirs up the
dead for you all the chief ones of the
earth it has raised up from their
Thrones all the kings of the nations
they all shall speak and say to you have
you also become as weak as we have you
become like us your pump is brought down
to Sheol and the sound of your stringed
instruments the maggot is spread under
you and worms cover you how you are
fallen from heaven
Oh Lucifer son of the morning how you
are cut down to the ground you who
weakened the nations for you have said
in your heart I will ascend into heaven
I will exalt my throne above the stars
of God I will also sit on the Mount of
the congregation on the farthest sides
of the north I will ascend above the
heights of the clouds I will be like the
Most High yet you shall be brought down
to shield to the lowest depths of the
pit those who see you will gaze at you
and consider you saying is this the man
who made the earth tremble who shook
kingdoms who made the world as a
wilderness and destroyed its cities who
did not open the house of his prisoners
all the kings of the nations all of them
sleep in glory every one in his own
house but you are cast out of your grave
like an abominable branch like the
garment of those who are slain thrust
through with a sword who go down to the
stones of the pit like a corpse trodden
under foot you will not be joined with
them in burial because you have
destroyed your land and slain your
people the brood of evildoers shall
never be named prepare slaughter for his
children because of the iniquity of
their fathers lest they rise up and
possess the land and fill the face of
the world with cities for I will rise up
against them and cut off from Babylon
the name and remnant and offspring and
posterity I will also make it a position
for the porcupine and marshes of muddy
water I will sweep it with the
of destruction the Lord of Hosts has
sworn saying surely as I have thought so
it shall come to pass and as I have
purposed so it shall stand that I will
break the Assyrian in my land and on my
mountains thread him underfoot then his
yoke shall be removed from them and his
burden removed from their shoulders this
is the purpose that is purposed against
the whole earth and this is the hand
that is stretched out over all the
nations for the Lord of Hosts has
purposed and who will annul it his hand
is stretched out and who will turn it
back this is the burden which came in
the year that King Ahaz died do not
rejoice all you of Philistia because the
rod that struck you is broken for out of
the Serpent's roots will come forth a
Viper and its offspring will be a fiery
flying serpent the firstborn of the poor
will feed and the needy will lie down in
safety I will kill your roots with
famine and it will slay your remnant
whale o gate cry O city all you of
Philistia are dissolved for smoke will
come from the north and no one will be
alone in his appointed times what will
they answer the messengers of the nation
that the Lord has founded Zion and the
poor of his people shall take refuge in
it
you